[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: For
millions of people,
the most terrifying
moment in their life
is when they're given
a cancer diagnosis.
The blood drains from
your brain and the world
becomes a haze of
fear and confusion.
This is what Dr. James Forsythe
was dealing with as one
of the nation's
first oncologists.
After watching the cure rate
stuck at an abysmal 2% to 3%
among stage IV cancer
patients, Dr. Forsythe
began looking for
answers and found them.
I spoke with him at his
offices in Reno, Nevada.
It's so good to
be here with you.
I've heard a lot about
you from different sources
through the last
couple of years.
And it's interesting the way
your name keeps coming up.
But one of the things--
the part of your story
that I find so
amazing is that you've
had to really fight for not
only your rights, but the rights
of other doctors to
even be able to present
the patient with options;
because when it comes
to cancer, there don't
seem to be a lot of options
if you're shoved down
the narrow, normal route.
And so maybe you can talk a
little bit about what happened.
You are an oncologist,
but talk a little bit
about how you came to understand
that the traditional route
of chemotherapy and
radiation just simply
wasn't going to be
enough for your clients.
>>JAMES FORSYTHE,
M.D., H.M.D.: Well,
thank you, Regina, very much.
Perhaps a few words
about my background
might be in order at this point.
I did my undergraduate
work at UC Berkeley,
so I was born a
radical, I guess.
I followed that up with medical
school at UC San Francisco,
was there during the
Haight-Ashbury heyday
in the Summer of Love.
Actually was a participant in
the Haight-Ashbury free clinic
for drugs with my
classmate, David Smith,
who became head of addiction
medicine in the United States.
After that, I was running out
of money in medical school,
so I joined the army
and became commissioned
in the army as a
second lieutenant
during my senior year.
And then was lucky enough to
get my training and internship
on the Presidio at
Letterman Army Hospital.
>>REGINA: Excellent.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Which was a
beautiful facility at the time.
It has now been demolished.
From there, the Vietnam
war was breaking out
and I was not real anxious
to go over to Southeast Asia.
And I wasn't quite sure of
what specialty I wanted,
so I decided that pathology
would be a good choice
because it would lend itself for
any subsequent choices I made.
So I entered a
pathology residency
at Tripler Army Hospital,
Honolulu, Hawaii,
which was not a hardship
tour incidentally.
But from there, became
a certified pathologist
and then was shipped to
Fort Bragg, North Carolina,
where I was assistant chief of
pathology at the army hospital
there.
And for two years,
I worked there
doing research and teaching and
was part of the 82nd Airborne
paratrooper unit.
From there, I did get
orders to Vietnam.
And after arriving in Vietnam
during Tet number two in 1969,
without having a
weapon or anything
and having to spend the first
couple weeks in a bunker.
We were being shelled
by mortars from outside
of Long Binh, which was a
few miles north of Saigon,
and finally got out all right
without having any bruises.
Was shipped up to my
final destination, which
was Chu Lai, which was in
the southern part of ICOR,
right on the South China Sea--
a beautiful, beautiful venue.
In fact, I understand there's a
Hilton Hotel there now-- where
I became head of the
laboratory there, and then
another surgical
hospital, which was
about 15 miles
away in the jungle.
So during that time, I was
head of malaria control, blood
banking, tropical medicine,
forensic pathology, et cetera.
And I had some close calls.
Went down on a
helicopter at one point
when we were treating
refugees at an offshore island
and, unfortunately,
witnessed the death
of the only nurse that was
killed during active duty.
She was hit by a rocket
that came to our base
and blew up on the ward
she was working on.
And that was quite a
traumatic experience.
After coming back
from Vietnam, I
decided I wasn't ready to
do pathology all my life,
I was more of a
people person; so, I
entered an internal medicine
residency in San Francisco.
And then after completing
training there for two years,
I went on into a
cancer fellowship.
>>REGINA: Why did
you choose cancer?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: You
know, I was always
interested in
hematology and oncology.
It was a natural bent.
The doctors in San Francisco
that I admired the most
were in that specialty, and
it was just interesting.
I felt it was going to be
widening and broadening
all the time.
And actually, the word
oncology was foreign to me
when I actually entered the
subspecialty because we really
didn't hear about
it in med school.
There were hardly any
chemotherapy drugs
at that time.
And they didn't even give
boards in oncology at that time.
So, it was very new.
And I had people in my class
in the fellowship program that
later on became the
rock stars of oncology
basically, in leadership around
the country in major programs,
and responsible for many of the
newer developments in oncology.
So I was in a very elite class,
and I completed my training
there.
And then decided to go into
practice in San Francisco
with a small group
of oncologists,
which I did for several years.
And during that period of
time, I was working downtown
and the AIDS epidemic
started breaking out,
but we weren't really aware
that it was AIDS at the time.
And we were seeing young
men die of strange diseases
that we absolutely knew
nothing about what caused it.
There weren't the tests
available at that time to know
how to test the immune system,
they just weren't available.
So we were always guessing as
to what was going on and almost
always wrong because we
never could put it together.
So it wasn't until the
early '80s, as you know,
that the HIV epidemic was
fully defined, both in France
and the United States, in
New York and San Francisco.
So I practiced there
a few years, decided--
living in Marin County,
doing the bridges
and going to eight or
10 hospitals a day.
If I had tried to even find
parking in San Francisco-
>>REGINA: That's the
most stressful part.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: -was not for me.
And I just said I'm
not going to live
a long time if I
had to keep that up.
I liked Reno.
I always liked Tahoe.
We went skiing there.
I had a condo up at
the lake at that time.
So I decided I'm
going to go to Reno.
They didn't have any
oncologists here in town,
so it was an open field.
In fact, Las Vegas had only
two oncologists at the time.
They tried to get me to go down
there, but I preferred Reno.
I prefer the seasons.
So, I became the
first oncologist here,
started all three cancer
wards here in Reno.
And I was head of the
VA cancer program.
And then I was also
an associate professor
of medicine with
the medical school.
>>REGINA: So what
I'm hearing here
is you've been in
this field essentially
since the term was coined.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yes.
>>REGINA: And you
have seen every trend
that has come and gone.
And so now that
we have you placed
and ID'd, and you're in the
field of oncology solidly,
you've started your centers,
let's start at a turning
point in your life,
which was the woman
with the brown
recluse spider bite.
I love that story in your book.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yeah.
I use that in my Take
Control Of Your Cancer book
because it was so
dramatic and so meaningful
to me, because it really made
the lights go on in the attic
and realize that the
things I was doing,
which weren't that dramatic in
terms of the response rates I
was getting, were not enough.
And the immune system--
>>REGINA: Tell the
story about the woman.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: The woman-- and
we won't use any names here--
but she was a woman
in her mid '60s, who
was a ranch lady who owned
a big ranch in Alturas,
California, which was
just north of Susanville.
She had been under my
care for about three years
for a malignant
melanoma, black mold
tumor that had
gone to her liver.
And I was using the best
chemo that we had at the time.
>>REGINA: So that
would be stage IV?
Stage III?
>>DR. FORSYTHE:
Stage IV disease.
And usually patients with
stage IV disease with melanoma,
even at that time, barely
made it six months to a year;
so, I felt quite
fortunate that she
was living up to three years.
But I knew her time was
coming to an end shortly.
Well, it so happened
that on the ranch,
she put on a pair of boots she
hadn't worn in many months.
And, lo and behold, there was
a nest of brown recluse spiders
in one of the boots
and she got stung.
Well, she had a horrendous
reaction on her leg.
The leg swelled up, it
was red, it was inflamed.
>>REGINA: It can be lethal.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Cellulitis.
And she was so sick that we had
to hospitalize her and put her
on multiple antibiotics and
blood thinners and so on.
Before going into the
hospital that she had
had documented liver scans,
which showed multiple lesions
on her liver consistent with
her metastatic melanoma.
Well after the
hospitalization, which
took about two to three
weeks to clear her up,
decided to repeat some of her
scans and see where we were.
And, lo and behold,
the liver scan now
was completely negative and
her liver function tests
were negative.
So I was just amazed by it.
I just presumed that the
fact she hadn't had any chemo
during that period, that it
had to be the infection that
was revving up
her immune system.
And the tremendous response
she had to the spider venom
was now responsible for
perhaps curing her cancer.
>>REGINA: Kicking her immune
system into high gear--
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Kicking it up.
Revving it up.
>>REGINA: -on some level.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yes.
And that just really turned
on a lot of lights for me.
It made me think
that there's got
to be a better way, a more
natural way of treating
cancers.
Also at that time, I
was seeing patients
from naturopaths and
homeopaths in the community.
I was the only guy
that would communicate
with these doctors,
who were considered
fringe doctors and
some people thought
of them as quackery doctors,
but they were getting some very
interesting and good results--
>>REGINA: Even with
cancer patients?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: -with
their cancer patients.
So it didn't fit
my paradigm that I
had learned you have to do
surgery, then radiation, then
chemo.
And that's all there was.
So I said in order for me to
push the envelope and do this,
I'm going to have to become
boarded in homeopathy as well
as straight
conventional medicine.
So I did that.
I took my training at
the British Institute
of Homeopathy, which is
a correspondence course.
After two years, we took very
extensive tests, both oral
and written, and I got my degree
in homeopathy and my boards
in homeopathy.
So now I was under two boards.
That allowed me to
push the envelope
and to think out of the
box, and to do things
that-- I tried to be quite
transparent in the community
so other doctors knew
what I was doing.
Now, naturally I
lost some referrals,
I lost some friendships, I lost
some status in the community
just because I had
wandered outside of
the straight and narrow box
and the way of doing things
in oncology.
Because if you didn't
do things by protocol,
by recipe exactly
that way, you were
considered to be a
little bit of a maverick.
>>REGINA: That hasn't changed.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: It really
hasn't changed, no.
>>REGINA: All these years
later, it hasn't changed.
And you know what?
I'm going to jump forward for
a moment in this story to just
one thing to get
people's attention really
strong and clear right now.
And that is give us
the survival rates.
I think it's the five
year rate that you use,
the five year survival
rate of stage IV cancer as
per the use of the
normal strategy,
which you just talked about,
which is chemo, radiation,
and so forth, and surgery.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yes, Regina.
This did happen later on when I
started seeing articles pop up
in the conventional oncology
literature that was showing
the survival rates of five years
of chemotherapy for adult stage
IV cancers, and comparable
studies that were done
in Australia at the
same time showing
in the range of a 2.1% to 2.3%.
That means 2 out of 100
patients alive at five years.
Now that just turned my head
completely around and I said I
cannot be part of this.
And I remembered the fact that
Richard Nixon declared his War
on Cancer in 1972
and this was supposed
to cure all cancers
within a matter of--
>>REGINA: 40 years ago.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: -10 or 20 years.
But at that time
they-- at this time
now, there's been
over $110 billion
thrown at the cancer industry,
and yet the survival rate
is not any better.
This article that
I'm referring to
came out in 2004 in the
American Journal of Oncology.
>>REGINA: So we
shouldn't expect there's
been a huge shift in
the last eight years?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: There hasn't.
>>REGINA: There has not been.
Eight, nine years even.
And now, just so that we
have everyone's attention,
what is the latest
stat that you have
for your clinic and other
alternative integrated oncology
clinics?
What is the five year
survival rate right now?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well,
to be honest with you,
I'm the only alternative
doctor in the country that I'm
aware of that actually keeps
track of and keeps numbers
and does what we call
outcome based studies.
By outcome based,
I mean what happens
to the patient from the
day you start treating him
until whatever
their survival is.
Is it three years?
Four years?
Five years?
Is it just six months?
So in my present study,
I have 450 patients,
actually closer to
500 at this point.
My last meeting, which
was several months ago
that I presented the data at,
showed a 72% overall survival
rate of adult stage IV
cancers of all types.
So that--
>>REGINA: I just wanted you
to put this into perspective
because it always is
shocking and horribly
disappointing to me
to hear the stories
that people like yourself
tell about what you've
had to go through just to fight
for the right to help people
like us.
And look at the difference
in the survival rates,
a 70% difference in
the survival rates.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yes.
And what I'm hoping to
do is get to five years
and compare what I
have at five years
using my combination of
conventional and alternative
medicine, so-called
integrative oncology,
and see how that compares.
I know we're going to beat 2%.
There's no question about it.
>>REGINA: Beat 2%?
Yeah, I would think so.
You're at what, the three
year mark right now?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: We're at almost
the three year mark, yes.
>>REGINA: Three year
mark and you're at 72%.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yes.
>>REGINA: So we
have to check back
with you in a couple of
years and see where you are.
It's sounding pretty good.
You're going to beat the 2%.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: And to be fair,
we do have to match the time.
And also, we're not
padding our statistics
with cancers that are easy
to treat like prostate
and breast are considered
the easier cancers to treat.
We have all comers.
We have colorectal.
We have sarcomas.
We have pancreas.
We have gallbladder cancers.
We have numerous very
difficult cancers to treat.
>>REGINA: And now during
this whole time-- and we'll
get this part out of
the way because when
we start talking
about what people
can do to help themselves
and about screening, testing,
what you start with when
someone comes in-- for all
of your good work, the FDA
keeps coming after you.
You have spent,
we spoke about it
off camera, a lot of
money in legal fees
to be able to just continue
offering your services.
And in your book, it said
over a 15 year period,
you've had something like
20 different investigations.
Almost like clockwork
they'll come after you again.
And this is not
an uncommon thing
for those who dare to go outside
of the conventional medicine
box, is it?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: No.
You do set yourself up
for the slings and arrows
of outrageous fortune,
as Shakespeare would say.
But you have to be willing to
do that and take those chances.
Fortunately, I did
beat the FDA in court
on the case that occurred
in 2005, where they actually
raided my home and my business
with several dozen agents
from different parts of
the federal government,
including the FBI, the FDA,
ICE, Immigrations, Customs.
And the investigation started
at that time, ended up
in a grand jury
indictment; which
as you know, a grand jury
can indict a ham sandwich,
as they say.
>>REGINA: You bet.
>>DR. FORSYTHE:
You can't provide
any defense in those hearings.
And then prior to trial, they
had an epiphany and said,
well, Dr. Forsythe must know a
lot about human growth hormone
because he's treated
a lot of patients,
so they had me write a national
protocol, which they signed off
on.
The prosecutors and the
federal judge signed off on it,
the FDA signed off.
So now I was holding
the national protocol
for human growth hormone
deficiency syndrome,
and so I thought the
whole thing was over.
Well, it wasn't.
They wanted to still
do some things to me
without going to trial.
Number one, put me on
a two year probation.
Plus charge me over $100,000
for investigative fees.
And we simply told
the prosecutor no,
we're going to go to trial
and let the jury decide.
I felt very confident because
the drug that I was using,
the human growth hormone
drug from Israel, was
said by the FDA
to be unapproved;
whereas it was in their own
orange book of approved drugs
and had been since 1996.
And it was also on their
internet as being approved.
So they hadn't even
taken the time or trouble
to check their website.
So it was quite
amusing, so the judge
threw out that particular part
of the indictment right away.
But the other part
of the indictment
was even more
interesting because it
was that I was using an
unrecognized form of medicine,
namely anti-aging medicine,
which the FDA does not
like the term anti-aging.
Age management is OK,
but anti-aging is no-no.
And here's another funny story.
The prosecutor when
he got up at my trial
and looked at the jury,
he says, you know,
Dr. Forsythe practices
anti-aging medicine.
He said, we all get old and die.
I looked at my
attorney, I said, Kevin,
I think we've won this case.
Because this guy was so
far behind the curve,
I mean, why would we treat
any diseases of aging.
I mean really.
>>REGINA: Right, which
is chronic degeneration,
basically.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yeah.
Basically strokes,
cancer, heart disease--
>>REGINA: But, you know
what's interesting--
and again, we were talking
about this off camera-- you
can give every other
kind of hormone,
any hormone besides that, can
be prescribed to a patient.
But the one thing
that kind of hits
central to all of that,
HGH, human growth hormone--
I think you said you're one
of the only doctors that
can actually prescribe
human growth hormone?
>>DR. FORSYTHE:
Since my trial, yes.
I'm the only one that
can legally prescribe it,
even though 20,000 or 30,000
doctors throughout the country
are doing it under the radar.
But we always learned
in med school,
as you just mentioned,
Regina, that we
were taught that if
you have any hormone
deficiency in the body, thyroid,
sex hormones, adrenal hormones,
you can replace
those with impunity.
And you're supposed to do that.
It's part of good medicine.
And the whole
business of treating
menopause now with
bioidentical hormone therapies
and andropause, or the male
equivalent of menopause,
with testosterone
and DHA and so on,
treating the low
adrenal function
with adrenal cortical hormones,
all those things have evolved
and are part of modern medicine.
>>REGINA: But why not HGH then?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: But HGH
was completely a no-no
from the FDA, and remains
that way still today,
even though my trial set
precedent to the opposite.
And I've had to be
an expert witness
in many cases around the
country just to provide support
to the doctors who are
under fire from the FDA.
>>REGINA: Well, it
would almost make
you think they didn't want you
live a long and fruitful life
or something like that.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well,
if you're cynical, yes,
they don't want us
to not be able to use
all those expensive
big pharma drugs
as we age for osteoporosis,
heart disease, hypertension,
cholesterol.
>>REGINA: When HGH is
cheap and really kind
of cuts to the core
of a lot of that.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yeah.
And people with HGH
who get replaced
don't get all these degenerative
diseases as rapidly.
In fact, we think it does
increase longevity as well,
although we don't have the
time studies yet to prove that.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
OK.
Now we're going back on
the track of oncology,
and one of the
things-- that's why
I wanted to talk
about or stats rates
right up front so people
understand this-- now,
this whole persuading
of the mass human psyche
that there's really
only one way to go
has been stepped up
through the advertising
industry and the media
and so forth as well.
And one thing I read in your
book that I hadn't known before
was that I think-- clarify it
if I'm wrong-- that the United
States and New Zealand are the
only countries that are allowed
to advertise pharmaceuticals.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: That's correct.
>>REGINA: That's correct?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yes.
That's correct.
>>REGINA: Every other ad
is pharmaceuticals here.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: And
think about those ads.
Would you, as an
intelligent human being,
ever take half the
drugs they advertise
when they list 10 or 12.
>>REGINA: Rectal
bleeding, depression.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Cancer.
Death.
>>REGINA: Possibly suicide.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Suicide.
You'd be nuts as
a patient, you'd
be nuts as a doctor to
prescribe any of them
because there's so many horrible
things that can happen to you.
In fact, death from FDA
approved drugs is supposedly
the fifth to six leading cause
of death in the United States.
>>REGINA: Yes, indeed.
So now let's talk
about the effects,
the toxic and poisonous effects
of using, in an unwise fashion,
using the traditional
cancer protocols
such as radiation
and chemotherapy.
And then, how you go
about identifying what's
needed in a body.
But first, let's talk about what
actually happens to most people
when they go in, they get
their diagnosis normally.
Not with you, but with a
normal oncologist or HMO.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yes.
And I was on that side of
the fence for many years,
so I speak with some authority.
But you can kill patients on
the first round of chemotherapy,
and it has been done many
times, believe it or not,
just by giving the full
dose of chemotherapy
because patients can
develop severe cytopenias.
That means their blood counts
drop out; white count is low,
the platelets are low,
the red count is down.
So they can get
bleeding problems,
they can get severe
sepsis or infections,
pneumonias, and not recover from
those because their body is so
depleted after the
bombardment with full dose
toxic chemotherapy.
Now, many of the protocols
that come out initially
are overweighted to the side
of overdoing, overdosing
the drugs.
For instance, a
drug like Xeloda,
which is an oral
form of 5-FU chemo,
was supposed to be given
two weeks out of three
in this enormous dose that no
patients could ever tolerate.
They would get what's called
hand-foot syndrome, where
they'd get red palms and soles.
They'd get chronic diarrheas.
They'd get skin rashes.
They'd get all kinds
of horrendous things,
including chemo brain.
And they finally had to lower
the dose to about 1/3 to 1/2
as much as they were
giving originally.
And then instead of giving
it two weeks out of three,
it's now every other week, which
is a lower form of giving it.
So things like that.
And then there are drugs
that have come out,
very expensive
drugs like Iressa,
which I mentioned in my
book, a drug for lung cancer,
nonsmall cell lung cancer
that was costing patients
out of pocket sometimes $25,000
a year for one pill a day.
>>REGINA: One pill a day.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: And
Iressa was found
after being out
five years, Regina,
to be no better
than a placebo drug,
so it was taken off the
market for lung cancer.
It's still out there,
but no one uses it.
>>REGINA: Someone
made a lot of money.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But the point is that
there are no set protocols too,
and that part is interesting.
You can go to one oncologist.
They'll have one
set of protocols
for you and one treatment plan.
Another oncologist will have
a completely different one,
meaning there is
nothing sure, there's
nothing standardized even
about these therapies.
Unless you're with one HMO
that says this is how it goes,
period.
Right?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Right.
And the interesting thing, and
I do mention this in my book
as well, that if you
go to these meetings
where you have 100
or 200 oncologists,
they'll give you a test case
and you have a keypad in front
of you and you're all
supposed to be answering
what the correct treatment
is, never any consensus.
Never any consensus.
It might be 30-70.
It might be 40-60.
They don't agree.
And you think, my gosh.
Here's oncologists, they're
all going by the book--
>>REGINA: There should
be something standard.
Yeah.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: -they should
all be on the same page.
But they're not.
It just tells you that
there's no consensus there.
>>REGINA: So the pressure
is on them, though.
How does this kind
of chain of events
happen that people are shunted
off into a particular protocol
with a particular set of drugs?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well,
the insurance companies,
the Medicare, Medicaid,
they have for every cancer--
let's say if you
had breast cancer,
there'd be a certain
list of drugs
that a doctor, I, as an
oncologist, could offer you.
If I went outside that list, it
would be considered off label.
You might end up having
to pay for it yourself.
I could still give
it to you, Regina,
but you'd probably have
to pay for the drug,
and they get terribly expensive,
out of your own pocketbook.
>>REGINA: OK.
So a lot of it's
financially driven,
and it's definitely driven
kind of back backward
by the pharmaceutical
industry it sounds like.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yeah.
Big pharma, of
course, and they don't
know because when we do
chemo sensitivity testing,
many drugs will pop up as
being effective for your breast
cancer that aren't on any list.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Or they might
be just for colon cancer.
They might be for kidney cancer.
Yet they work for your cancer.
You see what I mean?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: So you'd
never find that out
in conventional
oncology because you're
beholden to the recipe that
is written by the insurance
companies.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, let's go into
the way you do it.
So somebody arrives
at your office
and you do a really key
test right off the bat.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Right.
And that's where our current
study is at the present time.
We'll call it 480 patients
at the 33 month period,
again aiming for five years.
But the first thing
we do, first of all,
our patients are several
different varieties.
Some are virginal.
They've never had any chemo.
They want nothing
to do with chemo.
They've read all
the bad reports.
They've seen relatives
go through hell
with their chemotherapy
and have all kinds
of adverse toxicities.
Or they've been through the
whole range of chemotherapies,
maybe two or three or
four rounds of chemo
with different
protocols, and they've
gotten ravaged with
different side effects
and they say no more.
They just don't want anymore.
Or you have certain
religious sects
like Seventh Day Adventists,
and some of the Mennonites,
and the Hutterites and so on
throughout the country that
don't want conventional
therapy at all.
They'll go for
alternative therapy,
they don't want full dose chemo.
So there's a whole variety
of patients we see,
but mostly it's the
ones that have already
been through chemo;
it has failed them.
They've become disillusioned
with the chemo.
They've suffered a lot of toxic
side effects, neuropathies.
They might have
an enlarged heart.
They might have liver
or kidney damage.
They might have rashes
that are horrendous.
Chemo brain frequently happens.
>>REGINA: Which is what?
What is that?
What is chemo brain?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Chemo
brain occurs frequently
in breast cancer patients who've
been on six months of chemo
following a biopsy of a stage
II or III breast cancer;
and it generally
manifests itself
in the form of cognitive
defects, memory losses,
depression, a lack
of motivation,
sometimes suicidal thoughts.
So it's not a
pleasant thing, and it
can last for many
months or years
after the chemo is completed.
>>REGINA: So these people
have ended up on your doorstep
and you analyze them for a
particular genetic marker?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: What
I do is tell them
that what you have
done up to this point
has been a guessing game.
The oncologist,
while well meaning--
and I'm not trying to deride
oncologists in general
because that's what they've
been trained to do-- but they're
guessing from the
last conference
they went to, from
the last article
they've read in the
medical literature
that these two drugs are going
to work best for this patient
just because she has a stage
IV breast cancer or a stage IV
colorectal cancer.
When we do our
genetic testing, which
is called the Chemo
Sensitivity Genetic Testing,
and there are three
labs in the world that
do this very high level,
very high-tech testing.
I'm a pathologist by training,
but it's way above my pay grade
I always tell them
because, even though I've
run a dozen labs,
including three in Vietnam,
this is way above a routine
pathologist's expertise.
They have to harvest the cancer
cells from the blood sample
we give them from your
body, and they isolate
the circulating tumor
cells-- CTCs we call them--
and then they're able to augment
those cells, in other words,
proliferate them, grow
them in larger numbers,
and then break them
down genetically.
And because of the
Human Genome Project,
we know what all your genes do.
We can know if they
are over-expressed,
under-expressed,
or they're mutated.
And from that information,
we can tell what
drugs, what supplements
and what hormones.
So there's a triple
advantage we're getting.
We're getting the
best drugs for you,
we're getting the
best supplements,
and we're getting
the best hormones.
>>REGINA: And you're
marking for that person.
You know exactly.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: And it's
specific for your breast
cancer.
It's not for any
other breast cancer.
Because your profile will
look entirely different
than any other patient
with breast cancer.
>>REGINA: Now this has
been going on in Germany
for quite a while, hasn't it?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: It has been
for the last 10 years or so.
>>REGINA: This
profiling and very low
dose targeted chemotherapy
as well, as I recall.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well, that's
the other part of our equation.
I'll tell you about
that in a few seconds.
So let's follow through on this
story of the Chemo Sensitivity
Testing.
It takes a couple weeks
to get the results.
They fax it back to us
or email it back to us.
Right away, I sit down
and write a protocol
from my knowledge as
40 years in practice
as to what-- say they're
20 drugs out there
that look good for you.
They do grade the drugs as
to the degree of efficacy,
so I'm only looking for
drugs that are at least 80%
effective.
No drug is ever 100%
effective; otherwise, we'd
all be using it.
So if we get to 80% or
85%, that's probably max,
so we're never going to
get better than that.
But we have the two best
drugs in that range,
plus we have all those
another dozen supplements.
So as an old military
guy, I tell them
I like to hit the target with
rockets and with grenade bombs,
with mortar fire
and smart bombs,
and whatever it takes to
knock that target out.
Because I'm going to
hit it in such a way
that the cancer cells are not
going to become resistant,
which a cancer can do overnight.
Cancer cells are smart.
They know how to become
resistant to drugs,
especially if you
use just one drug.
So I tell them that we're
now beyond the guessing games
and we're talking about a
specific treatment that's
going to help you for sure,
and I can look you in the eye
and tell you this
is going to help.
It's not a guessing
game anymore.
Besides, I'm going to give
you that packet of supplements
that you're going
to take every day.
I'm going to recommend
certain dietary
changes for you, alkalinization.
I'm going to do some detox
procedures on you that
are going to help you
and cleanse your body.
I'm going to do everything I can
to fortify your immune system,
because I tell them, we
know from the AIDS epidemic
in the early '80s that if your
immune system is dysfunctional,
you're not going to do well
because your immune system are
your inherent fighters; they're
intrinsic to your system.
They are the ones
that keep the viruses,
the parasitic infections,
the bacterial infections,
and the malignant diseases away.
They're out there
fighting for you.
If your immune system
isn't working right,
you're going to get
some bad things happen
to you, like the AIDS patients
do who got Kaposi sarcomas, CNS
lymphoma, anal and genital
cancers, cervical cancers,
the list goes on and on.
>>REGINA: Right.
So now you have
everybody detoxing,
you have them on supplements,
homeopathic remedies,
you have them-- now,
let's talk about low dose,
highly targeted chemo.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yeah.
That's the second part
of the equation that
makes most sense to
me, because we already
have now the prescription,
the formula for what's
going to make you
better, but do we
want to give it in full dose?
We always give that
option to patients
because I'm under
conventional boards still,
I have to ask them, do you want
to take what I'm giving you
and go to your regular
oncologist and get full dose?
I don't get any
patients that want that.
I mean, I don't
think I've had any.
At least I can't
remember one, and I've
done 1,000 patient studies.
So I say the next
best option is to do
low dose insulin potentiated
nontoxic therapy,
where we take
advantage of the fact
that a cancer cell is a cell
that has many more insulin
receptors than a normal cell
does; and because of that,
it avidly takes sugar
out of the environment.
That's how the PET scan works.
And I'll explain how the PET
scan works, which lights up
cancer anywhere in the
body because you're
giving a radio tag
sugar molecule.
So that makes sense to them.
They can understand that.
When we give insulin
with the chemotherapy,
we're basically doing a
Trojan horse phenomena.
We're tricking the
cancer cell into thinking
that sugar is coming
along, whereas they're
getting hit by low dose chemo.
And this is more effective
because it's getting right
into the cancer cell and it's
leaving the normal cells alone.
So they're not getting hair
loss, nausea and vomiting.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to ask,
the side effects are
reduced, if not--
>>DR. FORSYTHE: The side
effects are minimal.
Really minimal.
So unless they've had
a lot of prior chemo
where their bone marrow
is already shot down,
we still have to monitor
their blood counts, of course,
but they're not going to
get this horrific cytopenias
that you'd see with
full dose chemo.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: And
our effects have--
I wouldn't have
believed this when
I was doing conventional
chemo-- but we
can see a response, a
dramatic 90% response
in their tumor in
a four-week period.
In that short of
a period of time.
>>REGINA: Wow.
That's amazing.
And in your book, you
talk about the fact
that when people are
told they have cancer,
when they're confronted
with this, a lot of them
are just like deer
in the headlights.
They can't hear the words.
There's a white noise that takes
over the brain that's fear.
Absolute fear.
And to sit with
someone like you that's
saying we now can see exactly
what's going on and I can help.
You have very high compliance.
And that makes a big difference.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Very high.
And cancer patients, in
general, are very compliant.
They don't want to die.
They want to see their kids
graduate, kids get married.
They want to see
their grandchildren.
They have a lot to live for
and they are very compliant,
and they want to
empower themselves.
The things we're doing empower
them to be better patients
because we do instruct them:
you've got to do your own diet.
You've got to be
your own master.
You've got to take charge
of your own health now.
And you're going to
do these supplements.
You're going to do
these dietary things
because your body
wants to get better.
Your body strives to be healthy.
So you've got to help it along.
And by giving a low
dose chemo, you're
not really knocking out
their immune system.
You're basically,
because of the therapies
we give with the IPT, or
insulin potentiating therapy,
are immune boosting therapies.
We use high dose C.
We use Poly-MVA .
We use L-glutathione.
We use our FIT protocol, which
is the Forsythe Immune Therapy
IV.
We use peroxide.
And we can do these
all because I'm
under the homeopathic boards,
where these are all allowed.
>>REGINA: And you just
said something a little bit
ago, they're very compliant and
they will follow instructions.
They'll follow instructions
with another doctor as well.
But the issue is, the doctors
are not informed and educated
as to what creates the
cancer to begin with.
So some very simple things that
you would say to a client such
as you have to knock off
on the simple carbohydrates
and sugars, for
example, that's not
a piece of information
someone would get.
So what happens if
you go in, you're
being bombarded with
chemo and radiation
and you're given no information
about the dietary changes that
may have certainly
assisted in your getting
into that situation
to begin with.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well, you've
hit upon an excellent point
here, because the
conventional oncologist either
doesn't want to talk about the
physiology and biochemistry
of the body and how it works,
and the fact that low sugar
diets are extremely essential
because you're starving
the cancer when you're
on a low sugar diet.
You want to starve the cancer.
You want your body
be at an alkaline pH
because cancers favor
an acid pH in your body.
As cancer grows, it
creates acid because it's
destroying tissues, it's
creating lactic acid.
So your body is acid
when you're sick.
Not only with cancer, with
infectious diseases as well.
>>REGINA: I mean, aren't
almost all chronic diseases
based in an acid environment?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Whether it's
arthritis or anything?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yes.
Your body tends to
be acid, creating
an alkaline environment
in your body
prevents the growth of cancer.
We know that.
There are clinics devoted
only to pH balancing,
believe it or not.
There are clinics
devoted only to dieting,
like the Gerson Clinic
or the Gonzalez Clinic.
So you see the whole spectrum.
We're trained in our clinic
to embody the whole approach,
the holistic approach, where
we're using all of these things
to a certain degree.
And even the detox procedures
where we're using colonics.
We're using things
like the BioMat,
which emanates infrared.
>>REGINA: That's one
of my favorite things.
I want to talk to you
about that in a moment.
So let's go back to alkalinity.
What can an individual that's
listening to this right now
do to just make
sure that they have
a more alkaline
environment themselves.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well,
you can certainly
eat foodstuffs that are
naturally alkaline producing,
like the green powders, the
green organic vegetables, wheat
grass, rye bread, barley, algae,
and a number of other things.
Eating broccoli, the
healthy vegetables.
There's so many
things you could do.
You could do alkaline
water on a regular basis.
>>REGINA: I mean there are
some people that say, oh,
that doesn't make
any difference,
alkaline water doesn't.
But the fact is,
you're saying it
does if you can find a
way to take alkalines.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: But if you
can't afford the equipment
to put it on your faucet
and bring the pH up,
you could do bicarbonate
in water daily.
You can do--
>>REGINA: A little
bit of baking soda.
>>DR. FORSYTHE:
Alka-Seltzer Cold.
Absolutely.
And that's not very expensive.
Alka-Seltzer Cold,
a couple pills a day
will alkalinize you too.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
OK.
So there are ways
to take care of that
without getting into exotic
machinery and so forth.
Now, you were hitting
upon heat and using heat
to be able to bring up
the core body temperature,
the temperature of
the cells, which
also is unfriendly to
certain viruses and cancers.
And you just
mentioned the BioMat,
and that's partly
how I know of you.
I've been sleeping on one of
those for the last six years.
And I found out about
it through someone else.
And basically had a
nasty chest infection
that wouldn't go away.
And within 48
hours, it was gone.
So of course I'm out on rooftops
shouting to everybody about it.
Now, you also came
into contact with that
through a mutual person
named Suzette that we know.
And I want to talk
about how that's
being utilized in
your cancer protocols
and what you're seeing
by way of effects.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well, yes.
The protocol we use is called
the Forsythe Immune Therapy,
which encompasses
the whole product.
It's not just one simple thing.
>>REGINA: So it's
dietary, it's supplements.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Supplements.
Its oxygenation.
>>REGINA: Alkalizing.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Alkalization.
It's detoxification.
And that's where
the BioMat comes in,
because we feel we're
detoxing the body as we sleep.
And sure, you can go
in an infrared sauna,
but then you're sitting in a
sauna sweating for 1/2 hour
or an hour a day.
And most people, their
time is so tight these days
with everything that's
going on, and our culture
is so fast paced, it's
so nice to have something
where you can just go
to bed and lay on a mat,
and while you're sleeping,
you're getting treated.
And that's exactly what
happens with the BioMat.
While you're sleeping,
you've got a heating element.
Plus you've got
far infrared rays.
You've got negative ions
coming up six to eight inches
through your body.
And it's healing.
It's stimulating
the immune system.
It's helping your pain.
So it's got so many
advantages, very comfortable.
In fact, it's addicting.
Because once you
get used to that--
>>REGINA: I can vouch for that.
It is, and you just
want to get in bed.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Once
you get used to it,
you don't want to go-- you
hate to even leave home
to go to a hotel.
>>REGINA: Well, it seems
to have this very tonic
and soothing effect on the
nervous system as well.
And, as you're saying,
it does reduce--
I know a lot of people who
have had pain reduced with it.
But this subtle effect
outside of the detoxification
of the cells and raising
of the cellular temperature
and working on that level,
what about more subtle aspects
of that kind of technology
and other things that
bring about this deeper
sense of rest within the body
and within the nervous system?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well, I think
that certainly helps that.
I think people sleep better
when their body is being healed,
and your body is being treated.
You're being given
therapy while you sleep,
which is amazing because
most of the time, people
consider sleep a waste of their
time, nothing is happening.
>>REGINA: Well, and
that's a technology--
that particular technology
came out of Japan and Korea.
And in Japan, I think
it's been maybe what, 15,
20 years that that
technology has been used.
And there's a little book
that I came in contact
with years ago called The
Fourth Treatment, which
was using this in addition
to traditional cancer
treatments in Japan.
And so, what are
you seeing, again,
just encapsulating it, what are
you seeing by way of effects
along with the chemo
and the other treatments
you're doing with that
particular heat therapy.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well, we've
noticed that our survival rates
are going up since we've
started incorporating that
as part of our FIT therapy.
There's no question about our
patients are doing better.
They're complaining
less of pain.
Their quality of
sleep is better.
And I feel their immune
function is better as well,
because we do test the immune
function of our patient.
We test B and T cell function
and natural killer cell
function.
We do notice their immune
function is improved.
>>REGINA: That's fabulous.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: So it has
some very positive benefits
and it's a very reasonable
price for what you're getting.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I think so too.
I mean, I've been sold on that.
All my friends have.
I've tried to push it on
my family and everyone.
Not everybody is
into alternatives.
But, yeah, I agree with that.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: And it's
a part of energy medicine.
I think we really
underutilize energy medicine.
We have the acupuncture
points, we have them ready.
The Vohl procedure and
kinesiology and things
like that.
But this is a form of
energy medicine, I feel.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, now let's talk
about detoxing
the body of heavy metals
and how that factors in.
Do you see excessive metals
in your blood analysis
of a lot of your
clients, for example?
Is that common?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well,
we do hair analysis.
We don't do blood analysis.
But hair analysis is
very, very critical
because we're really looking
for a trigger, as opposed
to conventional oncologists,
who couldn't care less where
your cancer came from,
to be honest with you.
That's not their interest.
Their interest is
putting you on the IV
drip with the toxic chemo.
And I hate to say that, but
they're not interested at all
if you have a trigger
in your system.
We are interested
in that, because we
find many patients have
toxicities in their hair
that are carcinogens like
arsenic, like uranium,
like cadmium, like antimony.
>>REGINA: So their cancer
could have been environmental?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Yes.
And, for instance, if we
see mercury, nickel, silver,
and tin, it's almost always
the mouth, the culprit,
because of your silver amalgams.
>>REGINA: And we're
going to get into that.
Yes.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: If we see
arsenic, it may be groundwater.
For instance, in this area
here, in Reno, northern Nevada,
extending all the way up
to Fallon and Fernley,
towns 50 miles
east of here, there
was a leukemic epidemic where
the EPA came in and found
the groundwater was 20 to 30
times as high with arsenic
as it should be.
>>REGINA: I remember that.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: And
they have cleaned it up.
They've spent millions of
dollars cleaning their water
supply.
The leukemic epidemic
is now stopped.
>>REGINA: Isn't that amazing.
Yeah.
And so you-- how does
that help you to identify,
I mean obviously if you have
a particular element out
of balance in your body, you
can start leaching that out.
I mean you can
start detoxifying.
Besides that, how does it help
you know what the source was?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well, it
helps you in the respect
that if you clear
up this cancer, then
you're not going to necessarily
get a second cancer right away.
If you cleared up the
breast cancer here,
you don't have to worry
about three years later
getting the opposite
breast necessarily
if you're still
holding the trigger.
But by chelating those toxic
metals out of your body,
you're hopefully going to
prevent that from happening.
>>REGINA: Now, you just
brought up a good point
and you touched on
it a moment ago,
and that is amalgam and its
direct correlation to breast
cancer.
And I've been reading a bit
about this the last few years.
What is your experience?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well, I do
mention this in my book,
and it's been studied
in Europe extensively.
Dr. Rau in Switzerland has noted
that disease in the premolar
teeth, especially the upper
teeth, the maxillary teeth,
there's a high correlation with
breast cancer on the same side
as the dental problem is.
A very high correlation.
And it's not just a coincidence
that the dental meridian
to that side lead right
to the breast meridian.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: And
so you know you've
got an influence there from the
dental infection to the breast
cancer developing.
>>REGINA: What about detection.
And I did do another story
with a dentist in England named
Allison Adams, and she
talked quite a bit about this
as well, so people can refer
to that interview for more
information on it.
But it's actually quite
shocking that it's not just
breast cancer, it's
other chronic diseases
as well that have been related
to dental amalgam, which
is off gassing all of the time.
They leak.
So now let's talk about
standard detection,
which they want you
to have if you're
with an HMO-- I keep trying
to say HBO-- with an HMO,
they'll want you to go in
once a year for mammography.
Now what do you consider to be
the safest or the wisest form
of detection?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well, I think
mammography is overused.
And I think that with
Obamacare coming in,
I think you're going to see less
and less because they're trying
to save every dollar they
can to pay for the system.
>>REGINA: What about
thermography and other?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: So they're
going to probably start
instead of 40, probably at 45.
They're going to figure
when you reach 65 or 70,
you don't need it anymore.
In other words, they've already
shut off women now over 70,
saying that mammography is at
the discretion or the payment
of the patient themselves.
The system won't
pay for it anymore.
>>REGINA: OK.
So we see the direction
that's taking.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: We
see that direction.
I think thermography is really
the safest diagnostic modality,
if you have a good one,
you can trust the person
who's running the thermography
unit because it does take
certain expertise to be able
to interpret thermograms.
They're not easy to interpret.
MRI, I think, is very good also.
It's more expensive than
mammography, though.
But it gives you more
answers, it gives you
more precise answers, and
it delivers no radiation.
>>REGINA: But is it
covered by insurance
or do you have to
pay out of pocket?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Sometimes if you
have a breast cancer it can be.
But for screening purposes, no.
It's not covered for screening.
And then I think if
I may, Regina, we
can get into one
of my pet peeves
is that's overtesting with--
>>REGINA: Yeah, I was
just going to ask you.
Go for it.
>>DR. FORSYTHE:
-radiologic procedures.
And I feel so
strongly about this
that conventional oncology, as
well as children's oncology,
overuse the use of diagnostic
radiologic procedures
that deliver enormous amounts
of radiation to the body.
And remember your immune systems
are all B and T cell derived,
lymphocyte derived.
They're most exquisitely
sensitive to radiation.
So when you're getting
600 times the dose--
remember a CAT CT scan is
600 times the radiation
of a plain and
simple chest x-ray.
Imagine yourself lining up for
a chest x-ray 600 times in a row
and you wondering if you're
getting too much radiation.
That's what happens
with one single test.
>>REGINA: Wow.
600 times.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: So
think about that.
Think of what that's doing
to your immune fighters that
are being just
bombarded with radiation
particles when they should be
helping you fight your cancer.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
What about PET scans?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well,
PET scans are the worst.
There are a
radioactive material,
which is a sugar derived
radio-tagged material injected
in your vein.
That is worse than a CAT
scan by a figure of 5.
So it's five times
stronger than a CAT scan,
say, of your chest
or your abdomen.
>>REGINA: Goodness.
So, avoid them.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Avoid them.
They're really not
that helpful to you.
You can find out the same
things from tumor markers
on your blood.
MRIs of the chest, the abdomen,
the back, the extremities
work fine.
Most radiologists don't like
to give MRIs of the chest
and abdomen because there
are moving structures
within those bodies
in your anatomy.
The breathing, the
lungs are still moving,
the peristalsis is still moving.
But still, you're going to
get a pretty good answer.
And besides, you're not
going to get any radiation.
And then you can do ultrasounds.
You can do thermography in
other parts of the body.
You don't have to do these very,
very high radiation producing
testing.
And especially if you're
on an experimental protocol
at a university, they require
you every three months
to have a PET scan.
>>REGINA: Oh, goodness.
Avoid that.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Avoid that.
>>REGINA: All right, good.
I wanted to know about that.
Now I'd like to talk about
supplements, including
some-- one just kind of
disappeared it seems,
that went into
obscurity, which was
the whole trend toward using
Laetrile, B17, years ago.
What happened to Laetrile?
Was it not effective?
Why was it removed?
Or has it been removed?
You don't hear about it anymore.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: There
are only two states
that I'm aware of
that allow Laetrile.
Nevada is one.
Oklahoma is the second one.
However--
>>REGINA: Do you use Laetrile?
B17?
>>DR. FORSYTHE:
Here's the caveat.
It has to be manufactured
in the state for us
to use it in Nevada.
There is no manufacturing site
for Laetrile in the state.
Now let me tell
you this, though.
The chemo sensitivity
testing that we do
does light up Laetrile if
it's effective for you.
So we can get it
through the internet.
We can get it through Mexico.
We could have it
delivered to the patient.
We're not necessarily
involved in its transfer.
So it's between the patient
and the distributor.
>>REGINA: But it still
can be effective?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: It can be, yes.
Because Laetrile
blocks the uptake
of sugar in the cancer cell.
And cancer cells thrive on sugar
and they do it anaerobically.
The Laetrile blocks
that mechanism.
>>REGINA: OK.
All right.
Thank you.
I wanted to just get
into that because it's
one of those things that
came up and disappeared.
Kind of like Taxol.
So let's talk about
now what a person
can do on a preventative level
in terms of supplementation.
Maybe even a little
lesser known, more
exotic supplementation.
We already talked about
things like alkalizing,
and the BioMat, and the
cruciferous vegetables,
let's talk about it from more
of a supplemental point of view.
What's out there?
What's new?
What's old?
What works to keep
our body basically
in a cancer free state, ideally.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well,
of course, that answer
is going to be answered
many different ways
by different
alternative doctors.
I have my favorites, of course.
But, again, the
beauty of this test
is, Regina, that we're
going to find out
what works for that patient.
Now, if we're just
talking about prevention--
>>REGINA: Yeah, just
prevention only.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: -a
normal person and you
have maybe cancer in
your family and you say,
I don't want ever
to have to deal
with that, what
should I be taking.
I have lists in my book that
I will refer patients to.
But things like Laetrile we
don't use prophylactically
just because there is too many
red flags, so I don't prescribe
that in my office.
However, things like
Resveratrol is good.
Colostrum is good.
First Mother's Milk is good.
I like vitamins A,
E C and vitamin D3.
Those are probably the
best anticancer vitamins.
There's Inositol , IP-6, which
builds natural killer cells.
>>REGINA: Inositol.
>>DR. FORSYTHE:
IP-6 it's called.
There's a whole list of other
things like green tea extract.
There's Essiac tea,
or ET we call it.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: I was
reading in your book.
I didn't know that,
that Essiac was just
Caisse, what was her name?
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Caisse.
>>REGINA: Caisse's name
spelled backwards and that
that's what Flor-Essence is.
Because you'll see
Flor-Essence, an old remedy,
I think produced by Flora.
You'll see it in
health food stores
and it just kind of sits on a
shelf and I'd walk passed it.
But let's talk about Essiac
and Flor-Essence for a moment.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Flor-Essence.
They're both the same thing.
And they're both
a group of herbs.
What happened was Nurse Caisse
in Canada was on a ward.
She was in her late 20s.
She was attending a lady
who was in her late 60s,
and saw on her
chest wall evidence
that she'd had breast cancer.
She had a deformity
there, scars and obviously
had a bad breast cancer there.
So she questioned her about
it and she said, well,
the French Canadian Indians
brewed up this group of herbs
for me and I took
it for a while.
And, lo and behold,
within six months
my breast cancer went away.
And since then, I've
never had a recurrence.
So Nurse Caisse, at the time,
spent her life actually trying
to find these herbs
and reformulate them,
distribute them, and finally got
together a whole group of herbs
and they're all
listed in the book,
but things like sheep sorrel.
And the thing is that when she
died, they went to her house
and burned everything.
>>REGINA: Oh, geez.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: But the
horse was out of the barn
because she had
already published.
>>REGINA: You have to laugh
because it's so awful.
So the point is you can still
get Essiac tea or Flor-Essence
as the herbal tincture, and
all of these other things
really quite easily,
as you mentioned.
And so for anyone that
needs to be reminded again
to go back and watch this
part of the interview
with a pen and pencil,
write it all down.
It's also in your book.
Wonderful book.
Take Control Of Your Cancer.
And, you know, this
is written really
for the lay person in such a
way that anyone can understand
and you've done a beautiful job.
And we only have a
minute left, what
is your new book coming out?
Right now.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: My new book is
called the Forsythe Anti-Cancer
Diet Book, and
I've tried to give
the whole history
of cancer diets
and all the confusion
that exists.
And we go from the Gerson diet,
the Budwig diet, the Atkins
diet--
>>REGINA: Oh, fabulous.
>>DR. FORSYTHE:
Mediterranean diet.
And there are many good
recipes in the book as well,
but we just tried to clear
the waters because it's
such a muddled area right now.
>>REGINA: Very confused area.
And thank you for all
the clarity you bring.
And also, I wanted to
thank you for just having
the courage of a
Vietnam vet to keep
going out there and fighting
for the rights of other doctors
so that the rest of us can
have the advantage of all
of these beautiful
integrated medicines
that have been withheld
from the public for so long.
And on that note,
I want to thank
you so much for having
us come into your office
and for your time.
>>DR. FORSYTHE: Well,
thank you, Regina.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: If you're
given a cancer diagnosis,
please do not lose hope.
And do not listen to a diagnosis
that leaves very little hope.
As you've just heard,
there's every reason
in the world to seek
further options.
If you'd like to connect
with Dr. Forsythe,
you can go to his website
at cancercenter.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]